>> Todd Gardner: Let's talk about
the second reason why web performance is
important, that's
SEO Search Engine Optimization.
How well you're able to help search
engines understand and rank your content.
If you're building a site that's publicly
facing, you care about this a lot,
you care about this because you live and
die based on page rank.
Probably when the user goes to Google or
whatever and searches for your website,
your key terms, the things that you
wanna rank for, you wanna be here.
You want to be in that number one spot or
as close to it as you can.
Because if you're not in
that number one spot,
the traffic that you can expect
to get drops off significantly.
According to Backlink.io,
here is the traffic counts or
click through rates by position and
search results.
And look at that number one,
look at that number one.
That number one result can
get 75 million clicks on high
volume words, and
drops off significantly after that.
The number two ranking is
like 10% of number one,
the number three ranking
is half of number two, and
it drops off really really fast
anything time we get greater than 10.
So, if you can't get up to those top one,
two, three positions,
you're gonna get very, very low traffic.
So great, you might be like, this isn't
a course on SEO, and you're right,
it's not a course on SEO.
What the hell does this have
to do with web performance?
Well, as of 2020,
Google made some important changes
that they announced on
the Search Central blog.
Search ranking this upcoming cert, or
this change that happened in 2020,
search ranking change that
incorporates page experience metrics.
They introduced a new signal that
combines the core web vitals,
which are an important measurement
of performance that we're gonna talk
about a lot.
They combine core Web Vitals with
their other existing signals.
So, as of 2020 the performance scores
of your page are a ranking signal.
You need to be fast to rank well,
if you wanna get to that number one spot,
if you're competing for a term like
developer stickers or whatever,
you need to be fast to get
to that number one spot.
Or somebody else who has a good site,
a site almost as good as yours, but
faster will beat you out and the traffic
wins that they'll get will be huge.
Now, there's data to back this up,
so here are LCP and
CLS are two of the metrics in
the core web vitals don't worry,
you don't need to know what they mean yet,
we're gonna talk about them a lot.
Along the bottom is the rank for
common keywords, so
the rank of the site and
then what their scores were.
And notice how much faster
the number one spot is,
the number one rank here is fast.
Now, it goes up from there, there's
this weird thing that happens around
the end of the first page at like position
six for LCP and position nine for CLS.
Where like the site gets faster and
then it goes up again, and
that has to do because this is
not the only ranking signal.
It also depends on like
how good your content is,
and how many people link to you and
all the other things that go into SEO.
And so, if we assume that the top five
pages are all probably equally good in
terms of their backlinks and their
content and the meaningfulness of how
good of a site they are, but the first
one is faster, the first one wins.
So, you need to be fast if you wanna
get to that number one position and
there's huge benefits in terms
of traffic if you can get there.
So, the third reason that's really, really
important for web performance is if you do
online advertising, and not everybody
does, this might not be important to you.
But online advertising is probably
going to be super important for
an e-commerce store or
anybody that It sells something.
So, when I say online advertising,
maybe you think of this,
you landed on some blog, some developer
productivity site, some whatever.
And you went to a website because
they have good content, and instead,
there's ads smeared all over the place.
Like here's some display ads that I
made for developer stickers online and
I'm covering so much of the page with ads,
and you know what?
Sometimes that's how the internet is,
we're not here to debate
the merits of online advertising.
But performance is a big aspect of this,
and
I'm talking from the point of view of the
person who wants to do the advertising.
Let's say I wanna buy an advertising
campaign for developers stickers online.
I make this really compelling
ad that I want you to buy this,
this sticker of a sloth on a rocket,
snd so I spend $1,000 buying display ads.
Now for a consumer business, that'll buy
me roughly 160,000 impressions, right?
You don't really need to know a lot
about online advertising for this but
this is just some rough data.
Now for a 160,000 impressions,
that's gonna get me
about 1% of them will click on that ad and
try and buy that sticker.
So, if I have that website that I
bought a $1,000, 1600 users, but
my website tends to bounce 60% of the
time, which means the user comes in and
then because they're frustrated,
they leave right away.
They don't interact, they might not
even wait for it to finish loading,
they don't like the site, they're gone.
That means that at a 60% bounce rate,
I get 640 real shoppers,
I paid 56 to get somebody on my store.
But 960 of them are just gone
because of bad user experience,
so how does this relate
back to performance?
Well, bounce rate and performance are
directly related for a lot of websites.
In one particular case study by an online
called Fernspace that sells furniture,
they saw that with a 65% improvement
in their web performance,
they reduced their bounce rate by 20% and
increased the time on page by 200%.
So, by improving performance, they got
users to not leave and stay longer.
Now, if we could apply the same sort of
improvement to our developer stickers
online site, I'm still gonna spend
$1,000 I'm still gonna get 1600 users.
That's just kind of general online
effectiveness for this example,
but I lower my bounce rate
20% to 48% bounce rate.
That means I'm now gonna get 832 shoppers,
that's a net of 192 new
shoppers that would have come in that
wouldn't have been there otherwise.
And I lowered my price from $1.56
per shopper to $1.20 per shopper.
So, I can save a lot of money
in online advertising spend if
I'm able to improve my web performance.
Now overall, we're talking about revenue,
we're talking about dollars.
Because if we wanna get something done,
if we wanna invest in development work or
web performance work, we need to make sure
that there's revenue behind it to tie up.
So, there's lots and lots of examples
on the web of how performance
ties to revenue,
here's an example from Walmart.
Obviously, Walmart,
huge site, huge fan base,
huge traffic, but we can apply
some of the lessons back to us.
Now, Walmart did a big
performance improvement,
a big set of performance work.
And what they found is that 100
millisecond improvement in terms of
load time resulted in a 1%
incremental revenue for walmart.com.
If they could speed up things by 100
milliseconds, so barely perceptible,
but it caused enough people to
not abandon what they were doing.
To not have the attention span of
a goldfish and not buy that Spatula that
they wanted to buy online or whatever,
they saw 1% incremental revenue.
Now, Walmart makes $665
billion dollars a year,
1% incremental revenue
is 6 billion dollars,
it makes $6 billion by that 1%.
Now that's a scale that many of
us are not operating at, but
we can apply some lessons
back to our sites.
Now here's another example, Skill.co is an
online job board, and what they found was
that there was this direct relationship
between load time and conversion rate.
A conversion for them would be like a job
is successfully posted on their site, or
somebody applies for a job.
And at 2.4 seconds,
they saw a 1.9% conversion rate,
if that fell to 3.3 seconds,
the conversion rate fell to 1.5%.
If we get 5 seconds or lower, it's less
than 0.6%, so the longer this goes,
the worse the conversion rate got, and
the less revenue that they would get.
There are so many examples of this,
there's a site online called WPO stats,
which is really cool to go and visit.
You can kind of sort case studies
by what metric they're improving or
what business result they were after.
And there's just so many examples of how
different businesses have correlated
improvements in performance back
to their core business metrics.
And we can use this data
to justify whether or
not we need to spend
money on web performance.
Now, whether or not you need to spend
money on web performance and whether or
not it affects your business
metrics is a complicated topic.
And we're gonna talk about that a lot
later in the workshop around setting
appropriate goals for your site.